In the previous video, we set up our
hello world application and what I want
to do now is take you through setting up
the emulator so that when we get to the
next video we can run this application.
Now Android studio should have set up an
emulator for you when you installed it
but I want to go through and show you
how to do that again anyway and that's
because it's useful to know how to
create new emulators so that you can
download and test on different Android
versions when you're going to release
your app so to get to the Android
virtual device manager you need to click
on this little button over here or turn
interval you can click on tools and
Android and select a media manager so
you can see that I've got an Android
virtual device already set up but I'm
going to delete that as I mentioned and
walk through the process of creating it
again so click on this little wire
triangle that's on the far right and
that's because it's a menu and from
there when I click on it I can select it
delete and click on yes now if you've
got everything delete it like I have
you'll start off with a screen that
looks like this.
so let's come down here and click on
create virtual device I'll just expand
this a little bit bigger so you can see
it a bit better. Now I'm going to choose
the Nexus 5x here for a few reasons,
firstly it's a good one for testing
purposes and secondly it's the device
that the physical device that I actually
own. Now if you're a bit shorter memory
or you've got a slow computer then you
may be better off with something like
the Nexus 4 that uses less resources.
Now this Play Store column is actually
quite important because it tells us
which devices can access the Google Play
Store now at the time I'm recording this
only the Nexus 5, the Nexus 5x emulators
are able to download apps from the Play
Store and of course that might change
over time now there are a couple of
implications of that the first one is
that you can install apps from the Play
Store on other devices the Nexus 4 for
example but so that's got normally a
problem because you usually use the
emulator for testing your own apps and
we'll touch on that a little bit later
though another implication is to do with
root access but don't worry about that
at the moment just be aware that there
are things you can't do or the Play
Store emulators that's something else
we'll discuss later in the course, once
you've selected a
click on next again I'll click I'm
selecting the Nexus 5x now this next
screen lets you choose which system
image to use and you can see at the top
there's three tabs here the first one is
the recommended devices and you can
download the images from here using the
download link so if I wanted to select
the API 24 version I could just click on
download there that would download and
then I would be able to access that and
use that then in my case you can see
we've got one that hasn't got the
download option and that means that it's
already been installed on this computer
though note that these devices over here
to the right on the target have got
Google Play in the target name if we
chosen a different model of firing on
the previous screen the target names
probably wouldn't include Google Play
then this all the sailors tap up here
for x86 images and also one for other
images. Now the x86 images does give you
a lot of choice but the decision is
quite easy when you're starting off now
the easy one is if you're running Linux
if that's the case you just choose an
x86 image for Android O, Oreo so you
would choose this one if you're running
Linux you don't have to worry about
hexam or anything like that and if
you've gone through the earlier video of
checking and configuring a visualization
support in your bios then there's really
nothing more to be done
Linux will happily use the x86 system
images. Now if you're running on a Mac or
Windows then the x86 images will give
the best performance provided you manage
to get hexam installed now if you did
then you're in the same position as
Linux users, so again choose an x86 image.
Now if you're on Windows or a Mac
without hexam the x86 emulators won't
run they'll refuse to start because
hexam isn't available so in that case
you should use the other images to use
an ARM image now all modern Mac's can
run hexam although you may need to
install the latest updates on your Mac
so if you didn't manage to install
hexam's sort that out before continuing
now on Windows you can only install
hexam if your computer has an Intel
processor and supports virtualization so
if you've got an AMD processor
unfortunately you'll have to choose in
the AR m EAB I'd at least 7 a image from
other images tab. Now these system images
these erm system images are
unfortunately a lot slower than the x86
ones so only use these if you've got no
other choice
in fact it's worth checking out the
genie motion emulators instead because
these AOM images in Android studio are
very slow indeed now I'm going to add a
link to the Genie motion website it's
available at Genie motion dot com, now
if we quickly have a look at this
genymotion website I'll paste that in
and this link will be in the resources
section of this video there's an option
over here to click in the top right
called trial so they click on that and
you'll be asked to register before you
can actually download anything once
you've registered you need to follow the
link for the personal version at the
moment that's not a button when you
scroll down the page but that may will
change so be prepared to hunt around the
site to find it but again that's only if
you can't get some of these other system
images to work so going back to Android
studio if you can use the x86 system
images that come with Android studio
then I certainly recommend that you use
them otherwise check out the genymotion
emulator if you find the ERM system
images are too slow. Now if you're happy
with working at the command prompt i'm
going to be putting some instructions on
how to use the x86 emulators from a
command prompt then i'll let you run
them on windows without hexam and gives
better performance than the ARM system
images but will add a document to the
FAQ section explaining how to do that.
Okay, so back to the x86 images so I'm going
to use the oreo image API 26 year is
Android 8 Google API so as you can see
there so note that Google api's isn't
the same thing as Google Play so this
emulator won't be able to access the
Google Play Store so that's fine I'm
gonna be using this emulator for most of
the apps in this course but we will be
installing a Play Store emulator for the
YouTube app a little bit later, so if
you've got this option here and there's
a download link you will need to click
it at this point in my case is already
downloaded so I can just click on next
after making sure that the oreo version
API level 26 is selected clicking on
next. Now it's here that we get the
chance to
the configuration and you've got a few
options here so I'm going to go through
explain what they are firstly the AVD
name now you can change that to
something else if you want to but the
suggested name is pretty good unless you
create a lot of emulators then it's a
good idea to use a name that describes
little bit better so you know what all
your nexus images are for example the
default name is fine here, so I'm
going to leave it as step right so
there's another chance here to choose a
different device by clicking the change
button and I could also choose a
different version of Android if I had
the images downloaded and then I'll just
show a screen similar to the previous
one so I'm going to leave them both as
they are in this next section down here
you can actually choose you can change
the orientation but you can also do that
while the device is running so if you've
created a tablet instead of a phone then
landscape would make more sense as the
default orientation rather than
portraits now the emulated performance
down here that's going to let you use
the host GPU the graphics processing
unit which can speed up the emulator
display quite a lot but it can also
cause problems with some systems though
so it's best to leave it as I've got it
on automatic to start with but if you do
get GPU or GL errors when running the
emulator then come back here and change
it to software instead and that prevents
the emulator from attempting to use your
graphics card processor if there are
problems you also try software if your
emulator hangs and doesn't fall you
start up sometimes that fixes the problem
now if hexam isn't installed on windows
and select a software without hacks some
hardware often doesn't work the emulator
isn't always very good at detecting that,
so it's best to set it explicitly here
in that scenario then this device frame
that looks nice on the screens I'm going
to leave that ticked it's really just
eye candy though so install machines
it's probably worth I'm ticking just to
save for some resources and the show
Advanced Settings button lets you
configure things like the amount of RAM
to allocate for the emulator if I click
on that and have a look let's scroll
down a little bit you can see here that
currently is to fold into 1536 megabytes
that's one of the half gig that the
emulator will use from your system
resources. So at a four gig system you're
going to give a lot of memory to the
emulator you may want to lock that
in that scenario one gig or even 768 Meg
may work better on a system with low
memory. Now the VM heap is needed for the
Java Runtime on the device the emulator
and comes out of the total memory that
you've allocated no internal storage is
is a file on your hard drive so this 800
megabytes here isn't coming out of your
memory there's not really anything to be
gained from increasing it so unless you
intend to install hundreds of apps on
the emulator
I'd say leave it unchanged and
specifying an external file for the SD
card is an advanced thing to do and
there's not much point changing that at
this stage either you do that if you
wanted to sort of pretend you're taking
it out of the emulator and plugged it
into your computer like you can do with
a real SD card but that's not something
we're going to be doing in this course
now when I click that show advanced
settings option the device frame options
moved you can create custom skins for
the emulator
that's just eye candy really but it can
be useful when you've come to publish
your app because you can capture a
screenshot of it running on an emulator
and obviously they look better if it
looks like a real device rather than
just a square box so when the time comes
for you to publish apps on the Google
Play Store then certainly play around
with the skins if you want this is the
section I'm talking about in here but
we're just starting out so either just
accept the ones suggested that I'm going
to do or you can untick enable device
frame if you want to speed things up a
little and give your computer less work
to doing so finally down here there's
this options for enable keyboard input
well that box that's our use your
computer's keyboard to type into the
emulator so that's quicker than using
the emulators on-screen keyboard but can
alter the way your app works so I
definitely recommend testing your app on
an emulator that has this option
unticked so you get a feel of how it
behaves on the majority of devices so
most users don't connect an external
keyboard to their phones which is
basically what this option is doing, so
being forced to use a sound keyboard a
to users can reveal some unexpected
behavior now it's much quicker to type
on a computer keyboard though so I'm
going to leave this box ticked for now
so once you've got everything selected
and set up, click on finish and the
device manager sets everything up and
takes you back to the main AVG screen
and you can now see our new device
listed so - right over here of three or
we've already seen any little triangle
down here that actually gives you a list
of options you duplicate this abd you
can wipe the data you can show where it
is on disk view the details or delete or
even stop it if it's currently executing
but for the other two icons the pencil
icon will let you edit your emulator so
if I click on that and it just goes back
still to these screens that we were
working on previously and you can make
changes to that emulator, but obviously
we don't need to do that because we've
just created it now this great triangle
here well that actually starts the
emulator so I'm going to click that and
the emulator will start up don't move
that everyone's going to close that
little screen down though. Now it
takes a little while for the emulator to
start up even on my Mac with 32
gigabytes of RAM so you may have to be
patient depending on the speed and
capacity of your computer and it can't
take literally half an hour or longer to
stand an emulator up on some systems so
it's a good idea to start it before you
actually start coding that way it's up
up and going and it's ready for you to
use the own kind of let Android studio
launch the emulator for us so I'm going
to close this one down for now but if
you maybe know this takes a long time to
start and launch one from here so that
it's available when you need it so I'm
just going to click over here click on
close hold the button down and select
power off and that's shut down the
emulator just a little confirmation in
the bottom right hand corner. Now the
last thing I want to point out is the
three different types of system images
in terms of their behaviors. Now the
easiest place to see this is in the SDK
manager, so I'm going to come over here
the tools Android SDK manager I mean
it'll come down here and click on show
package details make sure that's checked
and that's obviously available in the
SDK platforms tap up here now starting
with the Android 8 and ignoring the
Android TV and Android wear system
images you can see we've got various
system images available now I don't know
if Google is going to be releasing a ARM
images for Oreo but at the moment I
haven't got them available but I have
got a - Intel x86 system images
available Google api's until x86 in
Google Play until x86 and again we're
ignoring the
android TV Intel x86 atom system image so
if you need root access to the AVD and
we'll be seeing that later in this
course then we'll have to use the google
api is system image but if you need
access to the Google Play Store so that
you can install apps on the device then
you're wanting you to Google Play system
image then there is a third variant and
we can see that in the Android 4.2
section all the way down here there's an
Intel x86 system image with neither
Google API's or Google Play API's so he
just Intel x86 atom system image in the
YouTube section of this course I'm going
to be using the API 17 version of the
system image and Android 4.2 and only
going to be using that to show you an
error we'll get because YouTube isn't
installed on the system image, it's also
a good version to check and we look at
material design and section 9 now
starting from the top again the system
images we're going to be using the two
android 8 or AR ones the google API
until x86 atom system image and the
google play until x86 atom system image
that's from the android 8 and under
android new car we're also going to be
using the google api is into x86 anthem
and that's i mentioned right down to
android 4.2
we're going to be using this one as well.
Now if you're running Windows and can't
get hacks I'm working then you won't be
able to use the x86 system images from
Android studio there is a way to run
them from the command line and I'm going
to be putting a document in the FAQ
section describing how to do that
and it'll also describe some other
options for you to consider as well so
that simulators we've now got one
installed, let's move on to the next
video we're going to actually get their
hello world app running in this emulator.
So I'll see you in the next video.